# Route Templates

The `EndpointRouting` ( `UseRouting()` ) tries to match the _path_ of the URL (part of domain) to _route templates_. **ROUTE TEMPLATES** are string representations of a route pattern, which are generated by the call to `MapRazorPages()`, and creates a collection of `RouteEndpoint` objects.

`RouteEndpoint` is a type of endpoint that can be used in URL matching and generation. These objects are created from the file path and name of the Razor file found in the _Pages_ folder. 

You can change the default folder by setting it in the bootstraping phase:
```csharp
builder.Services.AddRazorPages().AddRazorPagesOptions(options => {
	options.RootDirectory = "/Content";
});
```
or
```csharp
builder.Services.AddRazorPages().WithRazorPagesRoot("/Content");
```

**FOR A RAZOR PAGE TO BE PICKED UP BY `UseEndpoints`**, the Razor file needs to have the `@page` directive and cannot be named with a leading underscore.

Route template examples:
Page|Route Template|Matches
:--|:--|:--
/Pages/Index.cshtml | "Index" | https://domain.com/index
/Pages/Index.cshtml|""|https://domain.com/
/Pages/Privacy.cshtml|"Privacy"|https://domain.com/privacy
/Pages/Error.cshtml|"Error"|https://domain.com/error

## Customizing Route Templates

Instead of using the default mechanism of matching a URL to a page's file path, Razor Pages provides plenty of ways to customize the route template generation process.

The principle entry point is the `@page` directive in the Razor page itself:
```csharp
@page "route-template"
```

The above example shows literal text, however, parameters and separators are also valid:

```csharp
"route-template/{parameter}"
```

With `/` being the separator and `{parameter}` being the parameter/placeholder value.

### Overriding Routes

You can override the default route template for a given page but providing an alternate text value to the `@page` directive. The literal text value starts with the separator character `/`.

Example for a page that lives at `/Pages/Privacy.cshtml`:
```csharp
@page "/privacy-policy"
```

The resulting route template table for this page now looks like so:

Page|Route Template
:--|:--
/Pages/Privacy/Index.cshtml|"Privacy/Index"
/Pages/Privacy/Index.cshtml|"Privacy"
/Pages/Privacy.cshtml|"privacy-policy"

Route template behave the same way as URLs, as in, those that do not begin with a path separator are **RELATIVE** to the current page. Those that do begin with a path separator are **ABSOLUTE** and do not append to the current page's route.